# Introduction

Throwing some ideas together with a logo is not a brand strategy. It’s certainly part of creating the brand, but it also includes what your goals are, who your customers are, what your brand stands for, what is the long-term vision for the brand. A well-executed brand strategy has the ability to influence the entire business or ultimately the industry as a whole.

## Brand Essence

Much of brand communication and interaction consists of physical assets such as typography, iconography, and marketing messages are the tangible associations one has when interacting with the brand though perceptions and emotions. Often these intangible associations are referred to as the ‘Brand experience’ but we can only influence those tangible parts. The rest of the brand is expressed by a persons experience with the brand in Marty Neumeier's words

> Your brand isn’t what you say it is. It’s what they say it is

A simplistic way to sum this up is as follows:

- The tangible parts of your brand can be controlled, this is your brand Identity.
- The intangible parts of your brand can be influenced and controlled to a degree, and a well thought out brand strategy can help support this.

## Framework Overview

By using a brand framework you can make sure that all customer communications and messages are supported by, and evolved from, a set of brand values that make up your brands personality. A well defined brand personality can help position an organisation against its competitors, find a niche in the market and influence perceptions customers have. This framework is focused on building a solid foundation for these tangible associations which has the ability to influence the brand personality. You may use this framework as a pathway and may modify or reproduce without any restriction.

## Table Of Contents

1. [Identity](./02.identity.md)
2. [Purpose](./03.purpose.md)
3. [Vision](./04.vision.md)
4. [Mission](./05.mission.md)
5. [Audience](./06.audience.md)
6. [Values](./07.values.md)
7. [Positioning](./08.positioning.md)
8. [Voice](./09.voice.md)
9. [Messaging](./10.messaging.md)
10. [Metrix](./08.metrix.md)
11. [Checklist](./12.checklist.md)

<hr/>

### References

[Creating and managing a coherent brand strategy](https://www.liquidlight.co.uk/blog/brand-frameworks-creating-and-managing-a-coherent-brand-strategy/)
