# Brand Heart

Identify your purpose, vision, mission, and values to build a brand with a strong foundation.

<hr/>

# Finding Purpose

### 1. What does the organization do?

It's products or services.

### 2. How do the organization do it?

The unique pproach to achieving the desired outcome. It’s what stands them apart from the competition.

### 3.Why does the organiztion do what they do?

It’s a purpose, cause or belief. It’s the very reason the organization's existence.

# Vision Statement

A vision statement is a business document that states the current and future objectives of an organization. A company's vision must align with its mission, strategic planning, culture, and core values.

### 1. What problem does my organization seek to solve?

Clearly identifying the problem or insufficiency your organization is responding to helps focus every action you take to ensure you're staying on track for success.

### 2. Why do you believe this problem needs to be addressed?

How Does it affect the individuals in an industry or the whole environment? Why should it be addressed now and who are we addressing it to.

### 3. What are the changes we believe the organization can make for individuals? For the industry?

Finding what’s achievable and rooting for it will keep the organization on track to success.

### 4. What is the dream for this organization?

This can be the best-case scenario, making it abstract and challenging.

### 5. How would things be different if my dream came true?

How will the organization’s success reflect on its society and how would things be different.

### 6. What can the organization realistically achieve?

Working on something achievable and obtainable will challenge people in the organization.

### 7. What phrases or keywords describe the type of organization and outcome you seek for?

# Mission Statement

A mission statement is defined as an action-based statement that declares the purpose of an organization and how they serve their customers. This sometimes includes a description of the company, what it does, and its objectives. A mission statement is a short summary of your company's purpose.

### 1. How can the organization achieve its vision?

What is the single thing the organization is working towards and how is it going to be done.

### 2. What are they here to do? How do they create that future?

This statement should capture the key elements of the organization’s past and present and imagine the future and how would things be changed or evolved.

# Brand Values

### 1. Identify consumer’s biggest pain point?

The most powerful brand values are those that respond to an existing need in the marketplace.

### 2. Identify all the benefits your product offers?

These benefits might be actual or perceived by their consumers.

### 3. Describe what makes these benefits valuable?

How do those benefits bring meaning to their consumers while using their products or services.

### 4. Connect this value to your buyer's problem?

If you know their consumers appreciate their personalised approach to customer service then how does it link to consumer's needs.

### 5. Differentiate yourself as the preferred provider of this value?

Imagine they are the only ones providing this desired value.

### 6. The outcomes of those differentiating values?

TO Do.

### 7. How will the organization conduct itself in support and pursuit of its mission?

What is the only thing the organization is working towards.

<hr/>

### References
